#summary Notes about the design of the game.
#labels Featured

(note, strikethru items are slated for addition once we get the game stable and playable)

=Setting=
  * Partially terraformed world, a-la Mines of Titan, caves, monsters, etc.
  * Goal: figure out later.
  * Real-time turn based. Each server has an "Turns per Second" setting, which is how often turns are taken. If no action from the client, assume a "pass" action.
  * Auto-attack everything is retarded. Require target to attack, then auto-attack. Ranged attacks still require manual work.
  * Auto-retaliate mode. Toggleable by the client.
  * Floors in the mine are only generated if someone has /not/ been to it yet. Otherwise all players see the same level, regardless of when they entered. Monsters respawn randomly on the levels to keep it interesting.
  * ~~Multiple mines out in the wilderness~~
  * ~~Party system~~
     * ~~Party members can see all player's revealed parts of the map~~
     * ~~Quick "radar" at the edges of the map to show where the other players are in the party.~~
  * Respawn "units"
    * When a player dies, must respawn at the registered unit.
    * ~~When the player dies with a deck implanted, corpse turns into a zombie, player respawns at a previously registerd unit. Zombie keeps equipment -- must kill zombie to get it back! Exception is the deck and chips -- those are considered sugically a part of the wearer and are kept after respawn. Cannot be recovered from the zombie. Zombies only happen to people with decks.~~

  * Small colony
    * Shops
      * Weapons shop
      * Armor shop
      * Chips shop
      * Respawn units
      * Bounty office
      * ~~Surgical Alteration Shops (alt shops. mods. maybe -- work out this later)~~

=Player=
  * Optional Deck -- gives the player the ability to equip chips and code fragments.
    * Decks are purchasable -- each has a limit of how many chips you can have equipped at one time. Must have a deck to run code fragments.
    * Chips can only be equipped at chip shops.
    * Code fragments can be equipped at any time by the user.
    * Downsides: the more use of active chips, the closer the user gets to having hallucinations -- rooms filled with monsters that nearly kill the user (for real) and then disappear, or rooms filled with... only the player! Increases the chance of epic failure of electronic items and weapons.

  * No Classes

==Attributes==
|| Strength || how much you can carry ||
|| Endurance || your HP ||
|| Intelligence || ability to use chips and code fragments ||
|| Charisma || how much everyone likes you, and how afraid enemies are of you ||
|| Dexterity || ability with projectile weapons ||

  * All attributes modifiable at level up.

==Luck==
  * Luck changes only based upon the consistent use of an item. The more you use it, the better the luck count on the item. Luck is factored into every dice roll.
  * Luck is like an Armor Class -- the more items you have that are "lucky" the higher your LC count.

==Armor Class==
  * Typical armor thingamajig.

=Monsters=
  * ~~Monsters have inventory, just like the player.~~
  * Attributes spawned with a range of values based upon the class. (fixed for now)
  * ~~Monsters can pick up items. Each item has a drop percentage -- not guaranteed to get certain items back!~~

=Armor=
  * Body
    * Ninja Turtle Halloween Costume (+10 luck for dumb luck)
    * Ceramic Power Armor

=Weapons=
  * Melee
    * Nerf bat
    * Lead pipe
    * Laser-edged sword
  * Energy
    * Laser pointer
    * Stun-gun
    * Sparq
  * Projectile
    * Super soaker
    * Dart gun
    * Rail gun
  * Thrown
    * Dress Shoe
    * Grenades
    * Large rock

=Chips=
  * Decks are attached to the head. Chips are physically inserted into the deck and modify the body in some way. Can only be changed at chips shops.
  * Passive enhancements:
    * Inherent weapons that characters respawn with
    * Shields
    * Lights
    * X-ray vision (see monsters through walls)
  * Active enhancements:
    * Short bursts of attribute increases

=Code Fragments=
  * Each code fragment increases the "load" on the deck. With each use the load increases, until the deck is fully loaded, at which point the player cannot use any further code fragments. DoTs are constant use of the load until the monster targetted is dead or the DoT is broken. Instants take effect for one turn and increase the load for one turn only.
  * Broadcasting range. Depending on the deck.
  * Affect electronic monsters and organic monsters with decks. Plain organics are not affected. Conversely, the aforementioned monsters can also affect players with decks.

==Cracking code==
  * Damage over Time
  * Instant damage
  * Attribute degradation
  * Speed adjustment (faster, slower, pause)
  * Increase metabolism speed (healing, but poisons run faster)

=Deck attributes=
  * Max load
  * Max num of chips

=Items=
==Credits==
  * Achieved via killing monsters (bounties).
    * With a deck, auto-get the credits upon kill.
    * Without deck, you have to pick up a token of the kill that the monster drops and return it to the bounty office.

==Tapes==
  * Contain unidentified code
  * Identify code at shops, or load and run it unidentified. MIGHT BE DAMAGING! Might be a "virus" which sticks around until you return to the colony (debuff, maybe poison-like DoT). Cannot load and "store" the code for later use.

==Weapons==

==Armor==

==Chips==

==Flashlights==
  * (not always needed on shallow levels)

=Grid types=
|| Type || Passable || Representation ||
|| Empty space || y || . ||
|| Wall || - || # ||
|| Perma Wall || - || # ||
|| Door || - || + ||
|| Open Door || y || ' ||
|| Up elevator || y || > ||
|| Down elevator || y || < ||
|| Water || y || ~ ||
|| Player || - || @ ||